[D1] Adding a line of text to encourage horizontal scaling in D1 (#18046)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/d1/platform/limits.mdx

Cloudflare also offers other storage solutions such as [Workers KV](/kv/api/), [Durable Objects](/durable-objects/), and [R2](/r2/get-started/). Each product has different advantages and limits. Refer to [Choose a data or storage product](/workers/platform/storage-options/) to review which storage option is right for your use case.

<Render file="limits_increase" product="workers" />

## Frequently Asked Questions

Frequently asked questions related to D1 limits:

### How much work can a D1 database do?

D1 is designed for horizontal scale out across multiple, smaller (10 GB) databases, such as per-user, per-tenant or per-entity databases. D1 allows you to build applications with thousands of databases at no extra cost for isolating with multiple databases, as the pricing is based only on query and storage costs.

> - Each D1 database can store up to 10 GB of data, and you can create up to 50,000 separate D1 databases. This allows you to split a single monolithic database into multiple, smaller databases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Each D1 database can store up to 10 GB of data, and you can create up to thousands of separate D1 databases. This allows you to split a single monolithic database into multiple, smaller databases, thereby isolating application data by user, customer, or tenant.
```

> - Working with smaller databases may allow you to query your databases more efficiently, and ultimately result in higher query throughput.

Reviewer: things to note here would be stronger data isolation, queries over smaller working data execute faster

avoid the mention of throughput

> - Working with smaller databases may allow you to query your databases more efficiently, and ultimately result in higher query throughput.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- SQL queries over a smaller working data set can be more efficient and performant.
```
Suggestion to combine this bullet and the one below

> - Smaller databases may require simpler query statements, reducing the processing time to return your query.

Reviewer: I would remove this line

Cloudflare also offers other storage solutions such as [Workers KV](/kv/api/), [Durable Objects](/durable-objects/), and [R2](/r2/get-started/). Each product has different advantages and limits. Refer to [Choose a data or storage product](/workers/platform/storage-options/) to review which storage option is right for your use case.

<Render file="limits_increase" product="workers" />

## Frequently Asked Questions

Frequently asked questions related to D1 limits:

> ### How much data can I store in a D1 database?

Reviewer: I would combine both questions. And can we avoid reiterating the limits but instead provide user context on how they should approach their data design and archtiecture.

Expand on `D1 is designed for...` paragraph

Reviewer: This is where we should have similar content to https://developers.cloudflare.com/durable-objects/platform/limits/#how-much-work-can-a-single-durable-object-do
